Title: MIT and Harvard Annouce edX
Date: 2012-05-03T23:41:00
Slug: decause-mit-and-harvard-annouce-edx
Author: decause
Tags: legacy, foss@rit
Category: legacy
Summary: [Video streaming by Ustream](http://www.ustream.tv/)  [Massachusetts Institute of Technology](http://mit.edu) and [Harvard](http://harvard.edu) held a press conference May 2nd to announce [edX](http://www.edxonline.org/). edX is "a joint partnership to offer online learning to millions of people around the world. EdX will offer Harvard and MIT classes online **for free**. Through this partnership, the institutions aim to extend their collective reach to build a global community of online learner ... 

[Video streaming by Ustream](http://www.ustream.tv/)

[Massachusetts Institute of Technology](http://mit.edu) and
[Harvard](http://harvard.edu) held a press conference May 2nd to announce
[edX](http://www.edxonline.org/). edX is "a joint partnership to offer online
learning to millions of people around the world. EdX will offer Harvard and
MIT classes online **for free**. Through this partnership, the institutions
aim to extend their collective reach to build a global community of online
learners and to improve education for everyone" according to their
[website](http://www.edxonline.org/about.html).

Between [MIT's OpenCourseWare (OCW)](http://ocw.mit.edu), and [Harvard's Open
Learning Initiative](http://www.extension.harvard.edu/open-learning-
initiative), both universities have a wealth of data and experience to draw
upon for such an endeavor. edX may be starting as a partnership between these
two universities, but their leadership envisions more. Other universities will
be encouraged to partner with edX to offer their own "branded" open courses on
the edX platform, according to Anant Agarwal, President of edX and Director of
the [Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at MIT
(CSAIL)](http://www.csail.mit.edu/). Agarwal also indicated the edX platform
itself is Free (gratis and libre), and the source code will be released open
source in the near future.

[Stanford University](http://stanford.edu) seemed well positioned to be one of
the edX early partners, after a wildly successful first year of open courses.
[Intro to Databases](http://db-class.org) and [Intro to Artificial
Intelligence](http://ai-class.com) saw course registrations in the **_hundreds
of thousands_**.

Though the courses were open to anyone with an internet connection and email
address, only Stanford Students were able to receive credit. Everyone else who
completed the course received a certificate of completion, ranking them
against fellow classmates.

Since offering the course, the part-time instructors of Intro to AI have gone
on to found a startup called Know Labs, which claims to offer high-quality
college courses to thousands of people through their portal
[Udacity.com](http://udacity.com). This entity is a _for-profit_ educational
organization, unlike edX which is a not-for-profit partnership. Co-founder and
CEO of Know Labs [David Stavens](https://twitter.com/#!/DavidUdacity) believes
the key to their business model is enrollment scale.

In a recent interview with
[InsideHigherEd.com](www.insidehighered.com/news/2012/01/24/stanford-open-
course-instructors-spin-profit-company) Stavens predicted "a course of 160,000
students could cover its overhead by charging $1 per student... With costs
that well-distributed, Udacity need not worry about whether its students
qualify for federal financial aid -- the lifeblood of most degree-granting
for-profits."

The most telling portion of that interview for our
[#why_college](https://twitter.com/#!/search/%23why_college) readers is this
gem based on informal surveys of the participants in the artificial
intelligence pilot.

> “One of the things we asked was, 'Which is more important to you -- the
reputation of the instructor, or the reputation of the institution?'

>

> They said the instructor is the main thing that’s important to them... That
gives us a lot of running room.”

