Title: Crafting a Useful Message in 140 Characters or Less
Date: 2012-05-09T21:36:00
Slug: decause-crafting-a-useful-message-in-140-characters-or-less
Author: decause
Tags: legacy, foss@rit
Category: legacy
URL: articles/decause/crafting-a-useful-message-in-140-characters-or-less.html
save_as: articles/decause/crafting-a-useful-message-in-140-characters-or-less.html
Summary: # Crafting a Useful Message in 140 Characters or Less    * Be Clear   * Be Direct   * Be Selective   * Be Informative   * Be Timely   * Be Consistent   * Be Tactful  # Be Clear  ## Use complete phrasing as much as possible  Most followers will forgive you for changing words like 'to' to '2' and 'your' to 'ur,' so long as the rest of message is effectively conveyed. Avoid this practice unless absolutely necessary--which in truth can be quite often. The more it is obvious that without making the ... 

# Crafting a Useful Message in 140 Characters or Less

  * Be Clear
  * Be Direct
  * Be Selective
  * Be Informative
  * Be Timely
  * Be Consistent
  * Be Tactful

## Be Clear

### Use complete phrasing as much as possible

Most followers will forgive you for changing words like 'to' to '2' and 'your'
to 'ur,' so long as the rest of message is effectively conveyed. Avoid this
practice unless absolutely necessary--which in truth can be quite often. The
more it is obvious that without making these kinds of elisions and
transliterations you would have exceeded the character limit, the better.
Sometimes however, it is best to rephrase your message. Use a thesaurus to
whittle down larger words, use adverbs and adjectives sparingly.

### Don't just say things like "check this out," or "this is awesome"

Explain why it is awesome. Qualify your statement with some kind of evidence,
or choose a more informative headline. Only use expressions like these when
awesomeness is obvious in some way (be it visually, or contextually)

## Be Direct

### Use Hashtags

The best way to target your message is to tag it appropriately. Hashtags allow
tweets to be categorized, converting content into atomized searchable data
structures. Events, communities, or organizations commonly select a hashtag
for relating individual tweets to one another that are about the same topic,
or addressing the same audience. This practice is critical to targeting your
message, and improves the usefulness and searchability of the content.

#### Bonus: Use In-line Hashtags

Oftentimes hashtags are listed at the end of a tweet. Keywords within your
headline or message can be tagged by simply prepending a '#' before the word,
without having to restate each one as an afterthought. This can help save you
precious characters, and create more interesting (and searchable) headlines.

### @Reply

If a particular story or message is pertinent to an individual or
organization, engage with them directly by including their username with an
'@' in front of it, directly within the tweet. It is likely the user joined
this network because they wanted to be engaged directly, and mentioning them
will guarantee you get their attention, and sometimes cause your tweets to
show up in the stream of that user's followers (who do not follow you
directly.)

### Retweet

A great way to get your message across is to defer to someone who has already
said it well. This also instills a certain level of reciprocity of messaging
within some users, who will do unto others accordingly.

## Be Selective

Your message history functions like a social media repertoire. Some people
think of their tweets like a CV; the longer the list, the more clout it
presumably carries. Some people choose to be much more selective about how
often they tweet, and the content they are willing to share with their
network.

## Be Informative

Unless you yourself are the subject which your followers are interested in,
you will likely want to share something in addition to your own thoughts. This
is the 'payload,' or the meat of the message you are trying to relate or
convey.

Eloquent quips or jokes, thoughtful observations, humorous commentary, and
other forms of self-narrative can be effective ways to deliver a message, and
can serve as their own payload. Doing this consistently can be a creative
strain, and occasionally you should support your opinions with references to
other sources. This will help illustrate your point, and provide legitimacy to
your claims.

### Images

Visual messaging can convey messages that would easily exceed 140 Character
limits. "A picture is worth a thousand words" may sound clich√©, but as a
payload it is a message that can be quickly grasped, and transcend language
barriers.

### Links

Think of your tweet as the Headline, and the link as the full content. _Follow
the link first_ and be sure you know the nature of the content you are
sharing. Many articles are written satirically, some headlines are
intentionally sensationalist, and some are just incorrect. Be sure that the
message you are crafting is consistent with the content you are sharing. If
you are linking to content that is controversial, offensive or not-safe-for-
work, indicate this to your audience in some way (perhaps with a #NSFW tag).
Here are some suggestions to pique a reader's interest, and help with both the
crafting and analysis of your messages:

####  Find an interesting message within the link you can quote directly.

Find the sentence or phrase that best characterizes the article, or the
'unexpected' bit that was surprising.

#### Use a URL shortening service to conserve precious characters.

For bonus points, use a URL shortening service with built-in analytics and
metrics. Services like [Bit.ly](http://bit.ly) will track not only how many
clicks a link gets, and when, but also from what source, and from where in the
world (generally).

## Be Timely

Success in many aspects of life is all about being in the right place at the
right time. In the realm of messaging, this is no different. Sometimes
**when** you say it, is just as important as **what** you are saying.

## Be Consistent

Crafting one effective message is not enough. If you want to consistently draw
eyeballs to your messaging, you need to consistently maintain a web presence.
There are a number of services you can use to automate this process, but
simply resolving to post at a regular interval, regardless of how frequent, is
a good way to show your messages are useful.

_But proceed with caution_. There is a delicate balance to strike between
signal and noise. Some followers will stick with you, regardless of how often
you are broadcasting. Others will grow tired of your messages repeatedly
showing up in their stream, and perhaps even unfollow you as a result. Even
those who will continue reading your messages will have a hard time
determining what is important from what is not, just from sheer volume alone.

## Be Tactful

Don't demand or beg people to "like" or "repost" your content. If your message
is worth sharing, and you position it visibly through proper channels, it will
gain traction on its own.

