Title: VideoChat@RIT
URL: projects/open-video-chat
save_as: projects/open-video-chat/index.html

![](/files/images/0vc.png)

**[Announcement](/ovc/announcement)**

**Beginning March 15th** VideoChat will be the focus of a new campaign at [RIT](http://rit.edu) sponsored by [PEN International](http://www.pen.ntid.rit.edu/welcome.php). The following is the Job description that was sent out to prospective students: 

Developers will be focusing on a specific application: The [Video Chat
Activity](http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Video_Chat) for the [XO
platform](http://laptop.org). Developers sponsored by [PEN
International](http://www.pen.ntid.rit.edu/welcome.php) will be charged with
developing a proof of concept by improving the underlying software stack to
improve video chat accessibility for communication between deaf and hard of
hearing students in a classroom environment. The project leaders at PEN have
expressed a long-term interest in the life of this application that includes
release into the Opensource ecosystem, and eventually porting to other
platforms.

Development will be documented on a weekly basis for publication/dissemination
for the NTID Technology

Symposium and for the Open Source communities (i.e.[The OLPC Video Chat
wiki](http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Video_Chat),
[Opensource.com](http://opensource.com),and
[TeachingOpensource.org](http://teachingopensource.org)). Deliverables will be
the application itself and the raw documentation of the process. Documentation
of the process and the development team's experience will be released on an
ongoing basis--live when possible--and will culminate at the terminus of the
project with an open source video production to be released and viewed at the
NTID Technology Symposium and FOSScon RIT this summer.

# OVC@RIT Team

Name URL Role

Stephen Jacobs

[RIT](http://www.ist.rit.edu/~sxj/)

Faculty Advisor

Remy DeCausemaker

[RIT](http://people.rit.edu/remydcsi)

Project Lead - Storytelling, Evaluations, Mentor

[Justin Lewis](http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/User:Jlew)

[RIT](http://people.rit.edu/jtl1728)

Dev Team - Lead

[Taylor Rose](http://wiki.laptop.org/go/User:Trose)

[Blog](http://troseovc.blogspot.com)

Dev Team - Developer

Fran Rogers

[RIT](http://people.rit.edu/~fsr3886/)

Dev Team - Developer

Doney Oatman

[RIT](/projects/ovc/doneyoatman)

Mentor Team - ASL

[Mel Chua](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/User:Mchua)

[Fedora](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/User:Mchua)

Mentor Team - Comm Arch, Evaluations

[Luke Macken](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/User:Lmacken)

[Fedora](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/User:Lmacken)

Mentor Team - Technical, Evaluations

[Bernie Innocenti](http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/User:Bernie)

[SugarLabs](http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/User:Bernie)

Mentor Team - Technical

# Storytelling

Our express goal as a development team is to create a working software
prototype by the symposium. Our express goal as Storytellers is to share our
process as well as progress, and include as many people in the development
process as want to be productively contributing--whether it be patches,
narratives, art/graphics, or expertise. By making raw feeds of code, video
coverage of our team, and blog posts to external sites in the FOSS Ecosystem,
we can tell our story on an on-going basis, with git log --stat, and ohloh
metrics to back up our narratives.

[Video Logs](http://foss.rit.edu/media/video/ovc)

# Links

  * [VideoChatWiki@SugarLabs](http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Video_Chat)(Prototype Source)
  * [VideoChat @ Fedora Hosted](https://fedorahosted.org/OpenVideoChat)

# Meetings

We meet Mondays through Thursdays in our [FossBox](/fossbox) from 12:00 to
9:00. We can be found there and on IRC.

